ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

Lewis Carroll

CHAPTER I. Down   Rabbit-Hole

Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on  
bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into  
book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in
it, 'and what is   use of a book,' thought Alice 'without pictures or
conversations?'

So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for  
hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether   pleasure
of making a daisy-chain would be worth   trouble of getting up and
picking   daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her.

There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it so
VERY much out of   way to hear   Rabbit say to itself, 'Oh dear!
Oh dear! I shall be late!' (when she thought it over afterwards, it
occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at   time
it all seemed quite natural); but when   Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH
OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on,
Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had
never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch
to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across   field
after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large
rabbit-hole under   hedge.

In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how
in   world she was to get out again.

  rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep
well.

Either   well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was
going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out what
she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she
looked at   sides of   well, and noticed that they were filled with
cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures
hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of   shelves as
she passed; it was labelled 'ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great
disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop   jar for fear
of killing somebody, so managed to put it into one of   cupboards as
she fell past it.

'Well!' thought Alice to herself, 'after such a fall as this, I shall
think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they'll all think me at
home! Why, I wouldn't say anything about it, even if I fell off   top
of   house!' (Which was very likely true.)

Down, down, down. Would   fall NEVER come to an end! 'I wonder how
many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud. 'I must be getting
somewhere near   centre of   earth. Let me see: that would be four
thousand miles down, I think--' (for, you see, Alice had learnt several
things of this sort in her lessons in   schoolroom, and though this
was not a VERY good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there
was no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over)
'--yes, that's about   right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?' (Alice had no idea what Latitude was, or
Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say.)

Presently she began again. 'I wonder if I shall fall right THROUGH  
earth! How funny it'll seem to come out among   people that walk with
their heads downward!   Antipathies, I think--' (she was rather glad
there WAS no one listening, this time, as it didn't sound at all  
right word) '--but I shall have to ask them what   name of   country
is, you know. Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and
she tried to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through   air! Do you think you could manage it?) 'And what an
ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking! No, it'll never do to
ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began
talking again. 'Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I should think!'
(Dinah was   cat.) 'I hope they'll remember her saucer of milk at
tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no
mice in   air, I'm afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that's very
like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder?' And here Alice
began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy
sort of way, 'Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, 'Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either question,
it didn't much matter which way she put it. She felt that she was dozing
off, and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with
Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly, 'Now, Dinah, tell me   truth:
did you ever eat a bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon
a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and   fall was over.

Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment:
she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her was another
long passage, and   White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it.
There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like   wind, and
was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, 'Oh my ears
and whiskers, how late it's getting!' She was close behind it when she
turned   corner, but   Rabbit was no longer to be seen: she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging
from   roof.

There were doors all round   hall, but they were all locked; and when
Alice had been all   way down one side and up   other, trying every
door, she walked sadly down   middle, wondering how she was ever to
get out again.

Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid
glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice's
first thought was that it might belong to one of   doors of   hall;
but, alas! either   locks were too large, or   key was too small,
but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on   second
time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and
behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried  
little golden key in   lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

Alice opened   door and found that it led into a small passage, not
much larger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and looked along   passage
into   loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed to get out of
that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and
those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head through  
doorway; 'and even if my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, 'it
would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could
shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only knew how to begin.'
For, you see, so many out-of- -way things had happened lately,
that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really
impossible.

There seemed to be no use in waiting by   little door, so she went
back to   table, half hoping she might find another key on it, or at
any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this
time she found a little bottle on it, ('which certainly was not here
before,' said Alice,) and round   neck of   bottle was a paper
label, with   words 'DRINK ME' beautifully printed on it in large
letters.

It was all very well to say 'Drink me,' but   wise little Alice was
not going to do THAT in a hurry. 'No, I'll look first,' she said, 'and
see whether it's marked "poison" or not'; for she had read several nice
little histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild
beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they WOULD not remember
  simple rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot
poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had never
forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked 'poison,' it is
almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later.

However, this bottle was NOT marked 'poison,' so Alice ventured to taste
it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour
of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot
buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'What a curious feeling!' said Alice; 'I must be shutting up like a
telescope.'

And so it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face
brightened up at   thought that she was now   right size for going
through   little door into that lovely garden. First, however, she
waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further:
she felt a little nervous about this; 'for it might end, you know,' said
Alice to herself, 'in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder
what I should be like then?' And she tried to fancy what   flame of a
candle is like after   candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going
into   garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to  
door, she found she had forgotten   little golden key, and when she
went back to   table for it, she found she could not possibly reach
it: she could see it quite plainly through   glass, and she tried her
best to climb up one of   legs of   table, but it was too slippery;
and when she had tired herself out with trying,   poor little thing
sat down and cried.

'Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to herself,
rather sharply; 'I advise you to leave off this minute!' She generally
gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it),
and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into
her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having
cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself,
for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people.
'But it's no use now,' thought poor Alice, 'to pretend to be two people!
Why, there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable person!'

Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under   table:
she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which   words
'EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants. 'Well, I'll eat it,' said
Alice, 'and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach   key; and if it
makes me grow smaller, I can creep under   door; so either way I'll
get into   garden, and I don't care which happens!'

She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, 'Which way? Which
way?', holding her hand on   top of her head to feel which way it was
growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained   same
size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice
had got so much into   way of expecting nothing but out-of- -way
things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on
in   common way.

So she set to work, and very soon finished off   cake.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *




CHAPTER II.   Pool of Tears

'Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much surprised, that
for   moment she quite forgot how to speak good English); 'now I'm
opening out like   largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet!'
(for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of
sight, they were getting so far off). 'Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder
who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I'm sure
_I_ shan't be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble
myself about you: you must manage   best way you can;--but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, 'or perhaps they won't walk   way I want
to go! Let me see: I'll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas.'

And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. 'They must
go by   carrier,' she thought; 'and how funny it'll seem, sending
presents to one's own feet! And how odd   directions will look!

     ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
       HEARTHRUG,
         NEAR   FENDER,
           (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

Just then her head struck against   roof of   hall: in fact she was
now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up   little golden
key and hurried off to   garden door.

Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to
look through into   garden with one eye; but to get through was more
hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again.

'You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, 'a great girl like
you,' (she might well say this), 'to go on crying in this way! Stop this
moment, I tell you!' But she went on all   same, shedding gallons of
tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about four inches
deep and reaching half down   hall.

After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in   distance, and
she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was   White
Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in
one hand and a large fan in   other: he came trotting along in a great
hurry, muttering to himself as he came, 'Oh!   Duchess,   Duchess!
Oh! won't she be savage if I've kept her waiting!' Alice felt so
desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when   Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, 'If you please, sir--'
  Rabbit started violently, dropped   white kid gloves and   fan,
and skurried away into   darkness as hard as he could go.

Alice took up   fan and gloves, and, as   hall was very hot, she
kept fanning herself all   time she went on talking: 'Dear, dear! How
queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual.
I wonder if I've been changed in   night? Let me think: was I  
same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a
little different. But if I'm not   same,   next question is, Who
in   world am I? Ah, THAT'S   great puzzle!' And she began thinking
over all   children she knew that were of   same age as herself, to
see if she could have been changed for any of them.

'I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, 'for her hair goes in such long
ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm sure I can't
be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a
very little! Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I, and--oh dear, how puzzling
it all is! I'll try if I know all   things I used to know. Let me
see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and
four times seven is--oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate!
However,   Multiplication Table doesn't signify: let's try Geography.
London is   capital of Paris, and Paris is   capital of Rome, and
Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain! I must have been changed for
Mabel! I'll try and say "How doth   little--"' and she crossed her
hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons, and began to repeat it,
but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and   words did not come  
same as they used to do:--

     'How doth   little crocodile
      Improve his shining tail,
     And pour   waters of   Nile
      On every golden scale!

     'How cheerfully he seems to grin,
      How neatly spread his claws,
     And welcome little fishes in
      With gently smiling jaws!'

'I'm sure those are not   right words,' said poor Alice, and her eyes
filled with tears again as she went on, 'I must be Mabel after all, and
I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to
no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, I've
made up my mind about it; if I'm Mabel, I'll stay down here! It'll be no
use their putting their heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!" I
shall only look up and say "Who am I then? Tell me that first, and then,
if I like being that person, I'll come up: if not, I'll stay down here
till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a sudden burst
of tears, 'I do wish they WOULD put their heads down! I am so VERY tired
of being all alone here!'

As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see
that she had put on one of   Rabbit's little white kid gloves while
she was talking. 'How CAN I have done that?' she thought. 'I must
be growing small again.' She got up and went to   table to measure
herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now
about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon found
out that   cause of this was   fan she was holding, and she dropped
it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

'That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at  
sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence; 'and
now for   garden!' and she ran with all speed back to   little door:
but, alas!   little door was shut again, and   little golden key was
lying on   glass table as before, 'and things are worse than ever,'
thought   poor child, 'for I never was so small as this before, never!
And I declare it's too bad, that it is!'

As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash!
she was up to her chin in salt water. Her first idea was that she
had somehow fallen into   sea, 'and in that case I can go back by
railway,' she said to herself. (Alice had been to   seaside once in
her life, and had come to   general conclusion, that wherever you go
to on   English coast you find a number of bathing machines in  
sea, some children digging in   sand with wooden spades, then a row
of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station.) However, she soon
made out that she was in   pool of tears which she had wept when she
was nine feet high.

'I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about, trying
to find her way out. 'I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by
being drowned in my own tears! That WILL be a queer thing, to be sure!
However, everything is queer to-day.'

Just then she heard something splashing about in   pool a little way
off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought
it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small
she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had
slipped in like herself.

'Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, 'to speak to this mouse?
Everything is so out-of- -way down here, that I should think very
likely it can talk: at any rate, there's no harm in trying.' So she
began: 'O Mouse, do you know   way out of this pool? I am very tired
of swimming about here, O Mouse!' (Alice thought this must be   right
way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but
she remembered having seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, 'A mouse--of
a mouse--to a mouse--a mouse--O mouse!')   Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes,
but it said nothing.

'Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; 'I daresay it's
a French mouse, come over with William   Conqueror.' (For, with all
her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago
anything had happened.) So she began again: 'Ou est ma chatte?' which
was   first sentence in her French lesson-book.   Mouse gave a
sudden leap out of   water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.
'Oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt
  poor animal's feelings. 'I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

'Not like cats!' cried   Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice. 'Would
YOU like cats if you were me?'

'Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone: 'don't be angry
about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you'd
take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet
thing,' Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in  
pool, 'and she sits purring so nicely by   fire, licking her paws and
washing her face--and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's
such a capital one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried
Alice again, for this time   Mouse was bristling all over, and she
felt certain it must be really offended. 'We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

'We indeed!' cried   Mouse, who was trembling down to   end of his
tail. 'As if I would talk on such a subject! Our family always HATED
cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don't let me hear   name again!'

'I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change   subject of
conversation. 'Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'   Mouse did not
answer, so Alice went on eagerly: 'There is such a nice little dog near
our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you
know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And it'll fetch things when
you throw them, and it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts
of things--I can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer,
you know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds! He
says it kills all   rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a sorrowful
tone, 'I'm afraid I've offended it again!' For   Mouse was swimming
away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in
  pool as it went.

So she called softly after it, 'Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we
won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't like them!' When  
Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its
face was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low
trembling voice, 'Let us get to   shore, and then I'll tell you my
history, and you'll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

It was high time to go, for   pool was getting quite crowded with  
birds and animals that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a Dodo,
a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice led  
way, and   whole party swam to   shore.




CHAPTER III. A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale

They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on   bank-- 
birds with draggled feathers,   animals with their fur clinging close
to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.

  first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a
consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural
to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had
known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long argument with  
Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, 'I am older than
you, and must know better'; and this Alice would not allow without
knowing how old it was, and, as   Lory positively refused to tell its
age, there was no more to be said.

At last   Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them,
called out, 'Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! I'LL soon make you
dry enough!' They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with   Mouse
in   middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt
sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.

'Ahem!' said   Mouse with an important air, 'are you all ready? This
is   driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! "William
  Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by   pope, was soon submitted
to by   English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much
accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar,   earls of
Mercia and Northumbria--"'

'Ugh!' said   Lory, with a shiver.

'I beg your pardon!' said   Mouse, frowning, but very politely: 'Did
you speak?'

'Not I!' said   Lory hastily.

'I thought you did,' said   Mouse. '--I proceed. "Edwin and Morcar,
  earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even Stigand,
  patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable--"'

'Found WHAT?' said   Duck.

'Found IT,'   Mouse replied rather crossly: 'of course you know what
"it" means.'

'I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said  
Duck: 'it's generally a frog or a worm.   question is, what did  
archbishop find?'

  Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on, '"--found
it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him  
crown. William's conduct at first was moderate. But   insolence of his
Normans--" How are you getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning
to Alice as it spoke.

'As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone: 'it doesn't seem to
dry me at all.'

'In that case,' said   Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, 'I move
that   meeting adjourn, for   immediate adoption of more energetic
remedies--'

'Speak English!' said   Eaglet. 'I don't know   meaning of half
those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do either!' And
  Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of   other birds
tittered audibly.

'What I was going to say,' said   Dodo in an offended tone, 'was, that
  best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

'What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much to know,
but   Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY ought to speak,
and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

'Why,' said   Dodo, '  best way to explain it is to do it.' (And, as
you might like to try   thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell
you how   Dodo managed it.)

First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, ('  exact
shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all   party were placed
along   course, here and there. There was no 'One, two, three, and
away,' but they began running when they liked, and left off when they
liked, so that it was not easy to know when   race was over. However,
when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again,
  Dodo suddenly called out '  race is over!' and they all crowded
round it, panting, and asking, 'But who has won?'

This question   Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought,
and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead
(  position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in   pictures
of him), while   rest waited in silence. At last   Dodo said,
'EVERYBODY has won, and all must have prizes.'

'But who is to give   prizes?' quite a chorus of voices asked.

'Why, SHE, of course,' said   Dodo, pointing to Alice with one finger;
and   whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a confused
way, 'Prizes! Prizes!'

Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her
pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily   salt water had
not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one
a-piece all round.

'But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said   Mouse.

'Of course,'   Dodo replied very gravely. 'What else have you got in
your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

'Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

'Hand it over here,' said   Dodo.

Then they all crowded round her once more, while   Dodo solemnly
presented   thimble, saying 'We beg your acceptance of this elegant
thimble'; and, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered.

Alice thought   whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave
that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything
to say, she simply bowed, and took   thimble, looking as solemn as she
could.

  next thing was to eat   comfits: this caused some noise and
confusion, as   large birds complained that they could not taste
theirs, and   small ones choked and had to be patted on   back.
However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and
begged   Mouse to tell them something more.

'You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice, 'and why
it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half afraid that it
would be offended again.

'Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said   Mouse, turning to Alice, and
sighing.

'It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with wonder at
  Mouse's tail; 'but why do you call it sad?' And she kept on puzzling
about it while   Mouse was speaking, so that her idea of   tale was
something like this:--

         'Fury said to a
         mouse, That he
        met in  
       house,
     "Let us
      both go to
       law: I will
        prosecute
         YOU.--Come,
           I'll take no
           denial; We
          must have a
        trial: For
      really this
     morning I've
    nothing
    to do."
     Said  
      mouse to  
       cur, "Such
        a trial,
         dear Sir,
            With
          no jury
        or judge,
       would be
      wasting
      our
      breath."
       "I'll be
        judge, I'll
         be jury,"
            Said
         cunning
          old Fury:
          "I'll
          try  
            whole
            cause,
              and
           condemn
           you
          to
           death."'


'You are not attending!' said   Mouse to Alice severely. 'What are you
thinking of?'

'I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly: 'you had got to   fifth
bend, I think?'

'I had NOT!' cried   Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

'A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking
anxiously about her. 'Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

'I shall do nothing of   sort,' said   Mouse, getting up and walking
away. 'You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

'I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice. 'But you're so easily offended,
you know!'

  Mouse only growled in reply.

'Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after it; and  
others all joined in chorus, 'Yes, please do!' but   Mouse only shook
its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.

'What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed   Lory, as soon as it was quite
out of sight; and an old Crab took   opportunity of saying to her
daughter 'Ah, my dear! Let this be a lesson to you never to lose
YOUR temper!' 'Hold your tongue, Ma!' said   young Crab, a little
snappishly. 'You're enough to try   patience of an oyster!'

'I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud, addressing
nobody in particular. 'She'd soon fetch it back!'

'And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask   question?' said  
Lory.

Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet:
'Dinah's our cat. And she's such a capital one for catching mice you
can't think! And oh, I wish you could see her after   birds! Why,
she'll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!'

This speech caused a remarkable sensation among   party. Some of  
birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very
carefully, remarking, 'I really must be getting home;   night-air
doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to
its children, 'Come away, my dears! It's high time you were all in bed!'
On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

'I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a melancholy
tone. 'Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm sure she's   best
cat in   world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I wonder if I shall ever see you
any more!' And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very
lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, she again heard
a little pattering of footsteps in   distance, and she looked up
eagerly, half hoping that   Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming
back to finish his story.




CHAPTER IV.   Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill

It was   White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking
anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something; and she heard
it muttering to itself '  Duchess!   Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh
my fur and whiskers! She'll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are
ferrets! Where CAN I have dropped them, I wonder?' Alice guessed in a
moment that it was looking for   fan and   pair of white kid gloves,
and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her swim in
  pool, and   great hall, with   glass table and   little door,
had vanished completely.

Very soon   Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and
called out to her in an angry tone, 'Why, Mary Ann, what ARE you doing
out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan!
Quick, now!' And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once
in   direction it pointed to, without trying to explain   mistake it
had made.

'He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran. 'How
surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am! But I'd better take him
his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.' As she said this, she
came upon a neat little house, on   door of which was a bright brass
plate with   name 'W. RABBIT' engraved upon it. She went in without
knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet  
real Mary Ann, and be turned out of   house before she had found  
fan and gloves.

'How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, 'to be going messages for
a rabbit! I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on messages next!' And she
began fancying   sort of thing that would happen: '"Miss Alice! Come
here directly, and get ready for your walk!" "Coming in a minute,
nurse! But I've got to see that   mouse doesn't get out." Only I don't
think,' Alice went on, 'that they'd let Dinah stop in   house if it
began ordering people about like that!'

By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table
in   window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs
of tiny white kid gloves: she took up   fan and a pair of   gloves,
and was just going to leave   room, when her eye fell upon a little
bottle that stood near   looking-glass. There was no label this time
with   words 'DRINK ME,' but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it
to her lips. 'I know SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said
to herself, 'whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what
this bottle does. I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for really
I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected: before she had
drunk half   bottle, she found her head pressing against   ceiling,
and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken. She hastily put
down   bottle, saying to herself 'That's quite enough--I hope I shan't
grow any more--As it is, I can't get out at   door--I do wish I hadn't
drunk quite so much!'

Alas! it was too late to wish that! She went on growing, and growing,
and very soon had to kneel down on   floor: in another minute there
was not even room for this, and she tried   effect of lying down with
one elbow against   door, and   other arm curled round her head.
Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out
of   window, and one foot up   chimney, and said to herself 'Now I
can do no more, whatever happens. What WILL become of me?'

Luckily for Alice,   little magic bottle had now had its full effect,
and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there
seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of   room
again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

'It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, 'when one wasn't
always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by mice and
rabbits. I almost wish I hadn't gone down that rabbit-hole--and yet--and
yet--it's rather curious, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what
CAN have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that
kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in   middle of one!
There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And when I
grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a sorrowful
tone; 'at least there's no room to grow up any more HERE.'

'But then,' thought Alice, 'shall I NEVER get any older than I am
now? That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman--but
then--always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn't like THAT!'

'Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself. 'How can you learn
lessons in here? Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no room at all
for any lesson-books!'

And so she went on, taking first one side and then   other, and making
quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes she heard
a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

'Mary Ann! Mary Ann!' said   voice. 'Fetch me my gloves this moment!'
Then came a little pattering of feet on   stairs. Alice knew it was
  Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook  
house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large
as   Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it.

Presently   Rabbit came up to   door, and tried to open it; but, as
  door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed hard against it,
that attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself 'Then I'll
go round and get in at   window.'

'THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she fancied
she heard   Rabbit just under   window, she suddenly spread out her
hand, and made a snatch in   air. She did not get hold of anything,
but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass,
from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a
cucumber-frame, or something of   sort.

Next came an angry voice--  Rabbit's--'Pat! Pat! Where are you?' And
then a voice she had never heard before, 'Sure then I'm here! Digging
for apples, yer honour!'

'Digging for apples, indeed!' said   Rabbit angrily. 'Here! Come and
help me out of THIS!' (Sounds of more broken glass.)

'Now tell me, Pat, what's that in   window?'

'Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!' (He pronounced it 'arrum.')

'An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills   whole
window!'

'Sure, it does, yer honour: but it's an arm for all that.'

'Well, it's got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!'

There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers
now and then; such as, 'Sure, I don't like it, yer honour, at all, at
all!' 'Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at last she spread out her
hand again, and made another snatch in   air. This time there were
TWO little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass. 'What a number of
cucumber-frames there must be!' thought Alice. 'I wonder what they'll do
next! As for pulling me out of   window, I only wish they COULD! I'm
sure I don't want to stay in here any longer!'

She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a
rumbling of little cartwheels, and   sound of a good many voices
all talking together: she made out   words: 'Where's   other
ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one; Bill's got   other--Bill!
fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up at this corner--No, tie 'em
together first--they don't reach half high enough yet--Oh! they'll
do well enough; don't be particular--Here, Bill! catch hold of this
rope--Will   roof bear?--Mind that loose slate--Oh, it's coming
down! Heads below!' (a loud crash)--'Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I
fancy--Who's to go down   chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I
won't, then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill!   master says you're to
go down   chimney!'

'Oh! So Bill's got to come down   chimney, has he?' said Alice to
herself. 'Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn't be in
Bill's place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but
I THINK I can kick a little!'

She drew her foot as far down   chimney as she could, and waited
till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what sort it was)
scratching and scrambling about in   chimney close above her: then,
saying to herself 'This is Bill,' she gave one sharp kick, and waited to
see what would happen next.

  first thing she heard was a general chorus of 'There goes Bill!'
then   Rabbit's voice along--'Catch him, you by   hedge!' then
silence, and then another confusion of voices--'Hold up his head--Brandy
now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell
us all about it!'

Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, ('That's Bill,' thought
Alice,) 'Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm better now--but I'm
a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know is, something comes at me
like a Jack-in- -box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!'

'So you did, old fellow!' said   others.

'We must burn   house down!' said   Rabbit's voice; and Alice called
out as loud as she could, 'If you do. I'll set Dinah at you!'

There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, 'I
wonder what they WILL do next! If they had any sense, they'd take  
roof off.' After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and
Alice heard   Rabbit say, 'A barrowful will do, to begin with.'

'A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to doubt,
for   next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at  
window, and some of them hit her in   face. 'I'll put a stop to this,'
she said to herself, and shouted out, 'You'd better not do that again!'
which produced another dead silence.

Alice noticed with some surprise that   pebbles were all turning into
little cakes as they lay on   floor, and a bright idea came into her
head. 'If I eat one of these cakes,' she thought, 'it's sure to make
SOME change in my size; and as it can't possibly make me larger, it must
make me smaller, I suppose.'

So she swallowed one of   cakes, and was delighted to find that she
began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small enough to get through
  door, she ran out of   house, and found quite a crowd of little
animals and birds waiting outside.   poor little Lizard, Bill, was
in   middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it
something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice   moment she
appeared; but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself
safe in a thick wood.

'  first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she wandered
about in   wood, 'is to grow to my right size again; and   second
thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be
  best plan.'

It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply
arranged;   only difficulty was, that she had not   smallest idea
how to set about it; and while she was peering about anxiously among
  trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a
great hurry.

An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and
feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her. 'Poor little thing!'
said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to it; but
she was terribly frightened all   time at   thought that it might be
hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of
all her coaxing.

Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and
held it out to   puppy; whereupon   puppy jumped into   air off
all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at   stick,
and made believe to worry it; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle,
to keep herself from being run over; and   moment she appeared on  
other side,   puppy made another rush at   stick, and tumbled head
over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was
very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round   thistle again; then
  puppy began a series of short charges at   stick, running a very
little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely
all   while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with
its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she
set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and
till   puppy's bark sounded quite faint in   distance.

'And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she leant
against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of  
leaves: 'I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if--if I'd
only been   right size to do it! Oh dear! I'd nearly forgotten that
I've got to grow up again! Let me see--how IS it to be managed? I
suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but   great
question is, what?'

  great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at
  flowers and   blades of grass, but she did not see anything that
looked like   right thing to eat or drink under   circumstances.
There was a large mushroom growing near her, about   same height as
herself; and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and
behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what
was on   top of it.

She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over   edge of  
mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar,
that was sitting on   top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long
hookah, and taking not   smallest notice of her or of anything else.




CHAPTER V. Advice from a Caterpillar

  Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence:
at last   Caterpillar took   hookah out of its mouth, and addressed
her in a languid, sleepy voice.

'Who are YOU?' said   Caterpillar.

This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied,
rather shyly, 'I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--at least I know
who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been
changed several times since then.'

'What do you mean by that?' said   Caterpillar sternly. 'Explain
yourself!'

'I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, 'because I'm not
myself, you see.'

'I don't see,' said   Caterpillar.

'I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very politely,
'for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and being so many
different sizes in a day is very confusing.'

'It isn't,' said   Caterpillar.

'Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; 'but when you
have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you know--and then
after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll feel it a little
queer, won't you?'

'Not a bit,' said   Caterpillar.

'Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice; 'all I know
is, it would feel very queer to ME.'

'You!' said   Caterpillar contemptuously. 'Who are YOU?'

Which brought them back again to   beginning of   conversation.
Alice felt a little irritated at   Caterpillar's making such VERY
short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely, 'I think,
you ought to tell me who YOU are, first.'

'Why?' said   Caterpillar.

Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any
good reason, and as   Caterpillar seemed to be in a VERY unpleasant
state of mind, she turned away.

'Come back!'   Caterpillar called after her. 'I've something important
to say!'

This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.

'Keep your temper,' said   Caterpillar.

'Is that all?' said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she
could.

'No,' said   Caterpillar.

Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and
perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing. For some
minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded its
arms, took   hookah out of its mouth again, and said, 'So you think
you're changed, do you?'

'I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; 'I can't remember things as I
used--and I don't keep   same size for ten minutes together!'

'Can't remember WHAT things?' said   Caterpillar.

'Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH   LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it all came
different!' Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

'Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said   Caterpillar.

Alice folded her hands, and began:--

   'You are old, Father William,'   young man said,
    'And your hair has become very white;
   And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
    Do you think, at your age, it is right?'

   'In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,
    'I feared it might injure   brain;
   But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
    Why, I do it again and again.'

   'You are old,' said   youth, 'as I mentioned before,
    And have grown most uncommonly fat;
   Yet you turned a back-somersault in at   door--
    Pray, what is   reason of that?'

   'In my youth,' said   sage, as he shook his grey locks,
    'I kept all my limbs very supple
   By   use of this ointment--one shilling   box--
    Allow me to sell you a couple?'

   'You are old,' said   youth, 'and your jaws are too weak
    For anything tougher than suet;
   Yet you finished   goose, with   bones and   beak--
    Pray how did you manage to do it?'

   'In my youth,' said his father, 'I took to   law,
    And argued each case with my wife;
   And   muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
    Has lasted   rest of my life.'

   'You are old,' said   youth, 'one would hardly suppose
    That your eye was as steady as ever;
   Yet you balanced an eel on   end of your nose--
    What made you so awfully clever?'

   'I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'
    Said his father; 'don't give yourself airs!
   Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
    Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'


'That is not said right,' said   Caterpillar.

'Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; 'some of   words
have got altered.'

'It is wrong from beginning to end,' said   Caterpillar decidedly, and
there was silence for some minutes.

  Caterpillar was   first to speak.

'What size do you want to be?' it asked.

'Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied; 'only one
doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

'I DON'T know,' said   Caterpillar.

Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life
before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

'Are you content now?' said   Caterpillar.

'Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you wouldn't mind,'
said Alice: 'three inches is such a wretched height to be.'

'It is a very good height indeed!' said   Caterpillar angrily, rearing
itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high).

'But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And
she thought of herself, 'I wish   creatures wouldn't be so easily
offended!'

'You'll get used to it in time,' said   Caterpillar; and it put  
hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In
a minute or two   Caterpillar took   hookah out of its mouth
and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off  
mushroom, and crawled away in   grass, merely remarking as it went,
'One side will make you grow taller, and   other side will make you
grow shorter.'

'One side of WHAT?   other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to herself.

'Of   mushroom,' said   Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it
aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

Alice remained looking thoughtfully at   mushroom for a minute, trying
to make out which were   two sides of it; and as it was perfectly
round, she found this a very difficult question. However, at last she
stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit
of   edge with each hand.

'And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a little of
  right-hand bit to try   effect:   next moment she felt a violent
blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot!

She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt
that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she
set to work at once to eat some of   other bit. Her chin was pressed
so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her
mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of  
lefthand bit.


  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of delight, which
changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders
were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was
an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a
sea of green leaves that lay far below her.

'What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice. 'And where HAVE my
shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can't see you?'
She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow,
except a little shaking among   distant green leaves.

As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head, she
tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her
neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had
just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going
to dive in among   leaves, which she found to be nothing but   tops
of   trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made
her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her face, and
was beating her violently with its wings.

'Serpent!' screamed   Pigeon.

'I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly. 'Let me alone!'

'Serpent, I say again!' repeated   Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone,
and added with a kind of sob, 'I've tried every way, and nothing seems
to suit them!'

'I haven't   least idea what you're talking about,' said Alice.

'I've tried   roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've tried
hedges,'   Pigeon went on, without attending to her; 'but those
serpents! There's no pleasing them!'

Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in
saying anything more till   Pigeon had finished.

'As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching   eggs,' said   Pigeon;
'but I must be on   look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I
haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

'I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was beginning to
see its meaning.

'And just as I'd taken   highest tree in   wood,' continued  
Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, 'and just as I was thinking I
should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from
  sky! Ugh, Serpent!'

'But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice. 'I'm a--I'm a--'

'Well! WHAT are you?' said   Pigeon. 'I can see you're trying to
invent something!'

'I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered
  number of changes she had gone through that day.

'A likely story indeed!' said   Pigeon in a tone of   deepest
contempt. 'I've seen a good many little girls in my time, but never ONE
with such a neck as that! No, no! You're a serpent; and there's no use
denying it. I suppose you'll be telling me next that you never tasted an
egg!'

'I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very truthful
child; 'but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you
know.'

'I don't believe it,' said   Pigeon; 'but if they do, why then they're
a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a
minute or two, which gave   Pigeon   opportunity of adding, 'You're
looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and what does it matter to me
whether you're a little girl or a serpent?'

'It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; 'but I'm not looking
for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't want YOURS: I don't
like them raw.'

'Well, be off, then!' said   Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled
down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among   trees as well as
she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among   branches, and
every now and then she had to stop and untwist it. After a while she
remembered that she still held   pieces of mushroom in her hands, and
she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at  
other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

It was so long since she had been anything near   right size, that it
felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes,
and began talking to herself, as usual. 'Come, there's half my plan done
now! How puzzling all these changes are! I'm never sure what I'm going
to be, from one minute to another! However, I've got back to my right
size:   next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that
to be done, I wonder?' As she said this, she came suddenly upon an open
place, with a little house in it about four feet high. 'Whoever lives
there,' thought Alice, 'it'll never do to come upon them THIS size: why,
I should frighten them out of their wits!' So she began nibbling at  
righthand bit again, and did not venture to go near   house till she
had brought herself down to nine inches high.




CHAPTER VI. Pig and Pepper

For a minute or two she stood looking at   house, and wondering what
to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of  
wood--(she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery:
otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a
fish)--and rapped loudly at   door with his knuckles. It was opened
by another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a
frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all
over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it was all about,
and crept a little way out of   wood to listen.

  Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter,
nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to   other,
saying, in a solemn tone, 'For   Duchess. An invitation from   Queen
to play croquet.'   Frog-Footman repeated, in   same solemn tone,
only changing   order of   words a little, 'From   Queen. An
invitation for   Duchess to play croquet.'

Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.

Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into  
wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped out  
Fish-Footman was gone, and   other was sitting on   ground near  
door, staring stupidly up into   sky.

Alice went timidly up to   door, and knocked.

'There's no sort of use in knocking,' said   Footman, 'and that for
two reasons. First, because I'm on   same side of   door as you
are; secondly, because they're making such a noise inside, no one could
possibly hear you.' And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise
going on within--a constant howling and sneezing, and every now and then
a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces.

'Please, then,' said Alice, 'how am I to get in?'

'There might be some sense in your knocking,'   Footman went on
without attending to her, 'if we had   door between us. For instance,
if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know.'
He was looking up into   sky all   time he was speaking, and this
Alice thought decidedly uncivil. 'But perhaps he can't help it,' she
said to herself; 'his eyes are so VERY nearly at   top of his head.
But at any rate he might answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she
repeated, aloud.

'I shall sit here,'   Footman remarked, 'till tomorrow--'

At this moment   door of   house opened, and a large plate came
skimming out, straight at   Footman's head: it just grazed his nose,
and broke to pieces against one of   trees behind him.

'--or next day, maybe,'   Footman continued in   same tone, exactly
as if nothing had happened.

'How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

'ARE you to get in at all?' said   Footman. 'That's   first
question, you know.'

It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. 'It's really
dreadful,' she muttered to herself, '  way all   creatures argue.
It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his
remark, with variations. 'I shall sit here,' he said, 'on and off, for
days and days.'

'But what am I to do?' said Alice.

'Anything you like,' said   Footman, and began whistling.

'Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately: 'he's
perfectly idiotic!' And she opened   door and went in.

  door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from
one end to   other:   Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in
  middle, nursing a baby;   cook was leaning over   fire, stirring
a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup.

'There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to herself,
as well as she could for sneezing.

There was certainly too much of it in   air. Even   Duchess
sneezed occasionally; and as for   baby, it was sneezing and howling
alternately without a moment's pause.   only things in   kitchen
that did not sneeze, were   cook, and a large cat which was sitting on
  hearth and grinning from ear to ear.

'Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for she was
not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first, 'why
your cat grins like that?'

'It's a Cheshire cat,' said   Duchess, 'and that's why. Pig!'

She said   last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite
jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to   baby,
and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again:--

'I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn't know
that cats COULD grin.'

'They all can,' said   Duchess; 'and most of 'em do.'

'I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely, feeling quite
pleased to have got into a conversation.

'You don't know much,' said   Duchess; 'and that's a fact.'

Alice did not at all like   tone of this remark, and thought it would
be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While she
was trying to fix on one,   cook took   cauldron of soup off  
fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at
  Duchess and   baby--  fire-irons came first; then followed a
shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes.   Duchess took no notice of
them even when they hit her; and   baby was howling so much already,
that it was quite impossible to say whether   blows hurt it or not.

'Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up and down in
an agony of terror. 'Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS nose'; as an unusually
large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it off.

'If everybody minded their own business,'   Duchess said in a hoarse
growl, '  world would go round a deal faster than it does.'

'Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very glad to get
an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge. 'Just think of
what work it would make with   day and night! You see   earth takes
twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis--'

'Talking of axes,' said   Duchess, 'chop off her head!'

Alice glanced rather anxiously at   cook, to see if she meant to take
  hint; but   cook was busily stirring   soup, and seemed not to
be listening, so she went on again: 'Twenty-four hours, I THINK; or is
it twelve? I--'

'Oh, don't bother ME,' said   Duchess; 'I never could abide figures!'
And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a sort of
lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at   end of
every line:

   'Speak roughly to your little boy,
    And beat him when he sneezes:
   He only does it to annoy,
    Because he knows it teases.'

         CHORUS.

 (In which   cook and   baby joined):--

       'Wow! wow! wow!'

While   Duchess sang   second verse of   song, she kept tossing
  baby violently up and down, and   poor little thing howled so,
that Alice could hardly hear   words:--

   'I speak severely to my boy,
    I beat him when he sneezes;
   For he can thoroughly enjoy
      pepper when he pleases!'

         CHORUS.

       'Wow! wow! wow!'

'Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!'   Duchess said to Alice,
flinging   baby at her as she spoke. 'I must go and get ready to play
croquet with   Queen,' and she hurried out of   room.   cook threw
a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.

Alice caught   baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped
little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, 'just
like a star-fish,' thought Alice.   poor little thing was snorting
like a steam-engine when she caught it, and kept doubling itself up and
straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for   first minute
or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it.

As soon as she had made out   proper way of nursing it, (which was to
twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right
ear and left foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried
it out into   open air. 'IF I don't take this child away with me,'
thought Alice, 'they're sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn't it be
murder to leave it behind?' She said   last words out loud, and  
little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).
'Don't grunt,' said Alice; 'that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to
see what was   matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had
a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its
eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did not
like   look of   thing at all. 'But perhaps it was only sobbing,'
she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any
tears.

No, there were no tears. 'If you're going to turn into a pig, my dear,'
said Alice, seriously, 'I'll have nothing more to do with you. Mind
now!'   poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible
to say which), and they went on for some while in silence.

Alice was just beginning to think to herself, 'Now, what am I to do with
this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted again, so violently,
that she looked down into its face in some alarm. This time there could
be NO mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and she
felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it further.

So she set   little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see
it trot away quietly into   wood. 'If it had grown up,' she said
to herself, 'it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes
rather a handsome pig, I think.' And she began thinking over other
children she knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just saying
to herself, 'if one only knew   right way to change them--' when she
was a little startled by seeing   Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a
tree a few yards off.

  Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she
thought: still it had VERY long claws and a great many teeth, so she
felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

'Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all know
whether it would like   name: however, it only grinned a little wider.
'Come, it's pleased so far,' thought Alice, and she went on. 'Would you
tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?'

'That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said   Cat.

'I don't much care where--' said Alice.

'Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said   Cat.

'--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

'Oh, you're sure to do that,' said   Cat, 'if you only walk long
enough.'

Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another question.
'What sort of people live about here?'

'In THAT direction,'   Cat said, waving its right paw round, 'lives
a Hatter: and in THAT direction,' waving   other paw, 'lives a March
Hare. Visit either you like: they're both mad.'

'But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

'Oh, you can't help that,' said   Cat: 'we're all mad here. I'm mad.
You're mad.'

'How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

'You must be,' said   Cat, 'or you wouldn't have come here.'

Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on 'And how
do you know that you're mad?'

'To begin with,' said   Cat, 'a dog's not mad. You grant that?'

'I suppose so,' said Alice.

'Well, then,'   Cat went on, 'you see, a dog growls when it's angry,
and wags its tail when it's pleased. Now I growl when I'm pleased, and
wag my tail when I'm angry. Therefore I'm mad.'

'I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

'Call it what you like,' said   Cat. 'Do you play croquet with  
Queen to-day?'

'I should like it very much,' said Alice, 'but I haven't been invited
yet.'

'You'll see me there,' said   Cat, and vanished.

Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer
things happening. While she was looking at   place where it had been,
it suddenly appeared again.

'By- -bye, what became of   baby?' said   Cat. 'I'd nearly
forgotten to ask.'

'It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back
in a natural way.

'I thought it would,' said   Cat, and vanished again.

Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not
appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in   direction in
which   March Hare was said to live. 'I've seen hatters before,' she
said to herself; '  March Hare will be much   most interesting, and
perhaps as this is May it won't be raving mad--at least not so mad as
it was in March.' As she said this, she looked up, and there was   Cat
again, sitting on a branch of a tree.

'Did you say pig, or fig?' said   Cat.

'I said pig,' replied Alice; 'and I wish you wouldn't keep appearing and
vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy.'

'All right,' said   Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly,
beginning with   end of   tail, and ending with   grin, which
remained some time after   rest of it had gone.

'Well! I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice; 'but a grin
without a cat! It's   most curious thing I ever saw in my life!'

She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of   house
of   March Hare: she thought it must be   right house, because  
chimneys were shaped like ears and   roof was thatched with fur. It
was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had
nibbled some more of   lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised herself to
about two feet high: even then she walked up towards it rather timidly,
saying to herself 'Suppose it should be raving mad after all! I almost
wish I'd gone to see   Hatter instead!'




CHAPTER VII. A Mad Tea-Party

There was a table set out under a tree in front of   house, and  
March Hare and   Hatter were having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting
between them, fast asleep, and   other two were using it as a
cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking over its head. 'Very
uncomfortable for   Dormouse,' thought Alice; 'only, as it's asleep, I
suppose it doesn't mind.'

  table was a large one, but   three were all crowded together at
one corner of it: 'No room! No room!' they cried out when they saw Alice
coming. 'There's PLENTY of room!' said Alice indignantly, and she sat
down in a large arm-chair at one end of   table.

'Have some wine,'   March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

Alice looked all round   table, but there was nothing on it but tea.
'I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

'There isn't any,' said   March Hare.

'Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice angrily.

'It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited,' said
  March Hare.

'I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; 'it's laid for a great
many more than three.'

'Your hair wants cutting,' said   Hatter. He had been looking at Alice
for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first speech.

'You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said with some
severity; 'it's very rude.'

  Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all he SAID
was, 'Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

'Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice. 'I'm glad they've
begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she added aloud.

'Do you mean that you think you can find out   answer to it?' said  
March Hare.

'Exactly so,' said Alice.

'Then you should say what you mean,'   March Hare went on.

'I do,' Alice hastily replied; 'at least--at least I mean what I
say--that's   same thing, you know.'

'Not   same thing a bit!' said   Hatter. 'You might just as well say
that "I see what I eat" is   same thing as "I eat what I see"!'

'You might just as well say,' added   March Hare, 'that "I like what I
get" is   same thing as "I get what I like"!'

'You might just as well say,' added   Dormouse, who seemed to be
talking in his sleep, 'that "I breathe when I sleep" is   same thing
as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

'It IS   same thing with you,' said   Hatter, and here  
conversation dropped, and   party sat silent for a minute, while Alice
thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks,
which wasn't much.

  Hatter was   first to break   silence. 'What day of   month
is it?' he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his
pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then,
and holding it to his ear.

Alice considered a little, and then said '  fourth.'

'Two days wrong!' sighed   Hatter. 'I told you butter wouldn't suit
  works!' he added looking angrily at   March Hare.

'It was   BEST butter,'   March Hare meekly replied.

'Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,'   Hatter grumbled:
'you shouldn't have put it in with   bread-knife.'

  March Hare took   watch and looked at it gloomily: then he dipped
it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of
nothing better to say than his first remark, 'It was   BEST butter,
you know.'

Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. 'What a
funny watch!' she remarked. 'It tells   day of   month, and doesn't
tell what o'clock it is!'

'Why should it?' muttered   Hatter. 'Does YOUR watch tell you what
year it is?'

'Of course not,' Alice replied very readily: 'but that's because it
stays   same year for such a long time together.'

'Which is just   case with MINE,' said   Hatter.

Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.   Hatter's remark seemed to have no
sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. 'I don't quite
understand you,' she said, as politely as she could.

'  Dormouse is asleep again,' said   Hatter, and he poured a little
hot tea upon its nose.

  Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its
eyes, 'Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself.'

'Have you guessed   riddle yet?'   Hatter said, turning to Alice
again.

'No, I give it up,' Alice replied: 'what's   answer?'

'I haven't   slightest idea,' said   Hatter.

'Nor I,' said   March Hare.

Alice sighed wearily. 'I think you might do something better with  
time,' she said, 'than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers.'

'If you knew Time as well as I do,' said   Hatter, 'you wouldn't talk
about wasting IT. It's HIM.'

'I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

'Of course you don't!'   Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously.
'I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

'Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied: 'but I know I have to beat time
when I learn music.'

'Ah! that accounts for it,' said   Hatter. 'He won't stand beating.
Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do almost anything
you liked with   clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o'clock in
  morning, just time to begin lessons: you'd only have to whisper a
hint to Time, and round goes   clock in a twinkling! Half-past one,
time for dinner!'

('I only wish it was,'   March Hare said to itself in a whisper.)

'That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully: 'but then--I
shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

'Not at first, perhaps,' said   Hatter: 'but you could keep it to
half-past one as long as you liked.'

'Is that   way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  Hatter shook his head mournfully. 'Not I!' he replied. 'We
quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--' (pointing
with his tea spoon at   March Hare,) '--it was at   great concert
given by   Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

     "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
     How I wonder what you're at!"

You know   song, perhaps?'

'I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

'It goes on, you know,'   Hatter continued, 'in this way:--

     "Up above   world you fly,
     Like a tea-tray in   sky.
         Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here   Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep 'Twinkle,
twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that they had to pinch
it to make it stop.

'Well, I'd hardly finished   first verse,' said   Hatter, 'when  
Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering   time! Off with his
head!"'

'How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

'And ever since that,'   Hatter went on in a mournful tone, 'he won't
do a thing I ask! It's always six o'clock now.'

A bright idea came into Alice's head. 'Is that   reason so many
tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

'Yes, that's it,' said   Hatter with a sigh: 'it's always tea-time,
and we've no time to wash   things between whiles.'

'Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

'Exactly so,' said   Hatter: 'as   things get used up.'

'But what happens when you come to   beginning again?' Alice ventured
to ask.

'Suppose we change   subject,'   March Hare interrupted, yawning.
'I'm getting tired of this. I vote   young lady tells us a story.'

'I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at  
proposal.

'Then   Dormouse shall!' they both cried. 'Wake up, Dormouse!' And
they pinched it on both sides at once.

  Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. 'I wasn't asleep,' he said in a
hoarse, feeble voice: 'I heard every word you fellows were saying.'

'Tell us a story!' said   March Hare.

'Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

'And be quick about it,' added   Hatter, 'or you'll be asleep again
before it's done.'

'Once upon a time there were three little sisters,'   Dormouse began
in a great hurry; 'and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and
they lived at   bottom of a well--'

'What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great interest in
questions of eating and drinking.

'They lived on treacle,' said   Dormouse, after thinking a minute or
two.

'They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently remarked; 'they'd
have been ill.'

'So they were,' said   Dormouse; 'VERY ill.'

Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways of
living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on: 'But
why did they live at   bottom of a well?'

'Take some more tea,'   March Hare said to Alice, very earnestly.

'I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, 'so I can't
take more.'

'You mean you can't take LESS,' said   Hatter: 'it's very easy to take
MORE than nothing.'

'Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

'Who's making personal remarks now?'   Hatter asked triumphantly.

Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped herself
to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to   Dormouse, and
repeated her question. 'Why did they live at   bottom of a well?'

  Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then
said, 'It was a treacle-well.'

'There's no such thing!' Alice was beginning very angrily, but  
Hatter and   March Hare went 'Sh! sh!' and   Dormouse sulkily
remarked, 'If you can't be civil, you'd better finish   story for
yourself.'

'No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; 'I won't interrupt again. I
dare say there may be ONE.'

'One, indeed!' said   Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to
go on. 'And so these three little sisters--they were learning to draw,
you know--'

'What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

'Treacle,' said   Dormouse, without considering at all this time.

'I want a clean cup,' interrupted   Hatter: 'let's all move one place
on.'

He moved on as he spoke, and   Dormouse followed him:   March Hare
moved into   Dormouse's place, and Alice rather unwillingly took
  place of   March Hare.   Hatter was   only one who got any
advantage from   change: and Alice was a good deal worse off than
before, as   March Hare had just upset   milk-jug into his plate.

Alice did not wish to offend   Dormouse again, so she began very
cautiously: 'But I don't understand. Where did they draw   treacle
from?'

'You can draw water out of a water-well,' said   Hatter; 'so I should
think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh, stupid?'

'But they were IN   well,' Alice said to   Dormouse, not choosing to
notice this last remark.

'Of course they were', said   Dormouse; '--well in.'

This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let   Dormouse go on for
some time without interrupting it.

'They were learning to draw,'   Dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing
its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; 'and they drew all manner of
things--everything that begins with an M--'

'Why with an M?' said Alice.

'Why not?' said   March Hare.

Alice was silent.

  Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into
a doze; but, on being pinched by   Hatter, it woke up again with
a little shriek, and went on: '--that begins with an M, such as
mouse-traps, and   moon, and memory, and muchness--you know you say
things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever see such a thing as a
drawing of a muchness?'

'Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, 'I don't
think--'

'Then you shouldn't talk,' said   Hatter.

This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in
great disgust, and walked off;   Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and
neither of   others took   least notice of her going, though she
looked back once or twice, half hoping that they would call after her:
  last time she saw them, they were trying to put   Dormouse into
  teapot.

'At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she picked her
way through   wood. 'It's   stupidest tea-party I ever was at in all
my life!'

Just as she said this, she noticed that one of   trees had a door
leading right into it. 'That's very curious!' she thought. 'But
everything's curious today. I think I may as well go in at once.' And in
she went.

Once more she found herself in   long hall, and close to   little
glass table. 'Now, I'll manage better this time,' she said to herself,
and began by taking   little golden key, and unlocking   door that
led into   garden. Then she went to work nibbling at   mushroom (she
had kept a piece of it in her pocket) till she was about a foot high:
then she walked down   little passage: and THEN--she found herself at
last in   beautiful garden, among   bright flower-beds and   cool
fountains.




CHAPTER VIII.   Queen's Croquet-Ground

A large rose-tree stood near   entrance of   garden:   roses
growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily
painting them red. Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she went
nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them she heard one of
them say, 'Look out now, Five! Don't go splashing paint over me like
that!'

'I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; 'Seven jogged my
elbow.'

On which Seven looked up and said, 'That's right, Five! Always lay  
blame on others!'

'YOU'D better not talk!' said Five. 'I heard   Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

'What for?' said   one who had spoken first.

'That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

'Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, 'and I'll tell him--it was for
bringing   cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun 'Well, of all   unjust
things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching
them, and he checked himself suddenly:   others looked round also, and
all of them bowed low.

'Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, 'why you are painting
those roses?'

Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low
voice, 'Why   fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to have been a
RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if   Queen
was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know.
So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore she comes, to--' At this
moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across   garden, called
out '  Queen!   Queen!' and   three gardeners instantly threw
themselves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many footsteps,
and Alice looked round, eager to see   Queen.

First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped like
  three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at  
corners: next   ten courtiers; these were ornamented all over with
diamonds, and walked two and two, as   soldiers did. After these came
  royal children; there were ten of them, and   little dears came
jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all ornamented
with hearts. Next came   guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among
them Alice recognised   White Rabbit: it was talking in a hurried
nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her. Then followed   Knave of Hearts, carrying   King's
crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this grand
procession, came   KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face
like   three gardeners, but she could not remember ever having heard
of such a rule at processions; 'and besides, what would be   use of
a procession,' thought she, 'if people had all to lie down upon their
faces, so that they couldn't see it?' So she stood still where she was,
and waited.

When   procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked
at her, and   Queen said severely 'Who is this?' She said it to  
Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.

'Idiot!' said   Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and, turning to
Alice, she went on, 'What's your name, child?'

'My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very politely;
but she added, to herself, 'Why, they're only a pack of cards, after
all. I needn't be afraid of them!'

'And who are THESE?' said   Queen, pointing to   three gardeners who
were lying round   rosetree; for, you see, as they were lying on their
faces, and   pattern on their backs was   same as   rest of  
pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers, or
courtiers, or three of her own children.

'How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage. 'It's no
business of MINE.'

  Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her for a
moment like a wild beast, screamed 'Off with her head! Off--'

'Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and   Queen was
silent.

  King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said 'Consider, my
dear: she is only a child!'

  Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to   Knave 'Turn them
over!'

  Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

'Get up!' said   Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and   three
gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to   King,   Queen,
  royal children, and everybody else.

'Leave off that!' screamed   Queen. 'You make me giddy.' And then,
turning to   rose-tree, she went on, 'What HAVE you been doing here?'

'May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone, going
down on one knee as he spoke, 'we were trying--'

'I see!' said   Queen, who had meanwhile been examining   roses.
'Off with their heads!' and   procession moved on, three of  
soldiers remaining behind to execute   unfortunate gardeners, who ran
to Alice for protection.

'You shan't be beheaded!' said Alice, and she put them into a large
flower-pot that stood near.   three soldiers wandered about for a
minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after  
others.

'Are their heads off?' shouted   Queen.

'Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!'   soldiers shouted
in reply.

'That's right!' shouted   Queen. 'Can you play croquet?'

  soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as   question was
evidently meant for her.

'Yes!' shouted Alice.

'Come on, then!' roared   Queen, and Alice joined   procession,
wondering very much what would happen next.

'It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side. She was
walking by   White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face.

'Very,' said Alice: '--where's   Duchess?'

'Hush! Hush!' said   Rabbit in a low, hurried tone. He looked
anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon
tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered 'She's under
sentence of execution.'

'What for?' said Alice.

'Did you say "What a pity!"?'   Rabbit asked.

'No, I didn't,' said Alice: 'I don't think it's at all a pity. I said
"What for?"'

'She boxed   Queen's ears--'   Rabbit began. Alice gave a little
scream of laughter. 'Oh, hush!'   Rabbit whispered in a frightened
tone. '  Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and  
Queen said--'

'Get to your places!' shouted   Queen in a voice of thunder, and
people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each
other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and   game
began. Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in
her life; it was all ridges and furrows;   balls were live hedgehogs,
  mallets live flamingoes, and   soldiers had to double themselves
up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make   arches.

  chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo:
she succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough, under
her arm, with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as she had got
its neck nicely straightened out, and was going to give   hedgehog a
blow with its head, it WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face,
with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out
laughing: and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin
again, it was very provoking to find that   hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in   act of crawling away: besides all this, there was
generally a ridge or furrow in   way wherever she wanted to send  
hedgehog to, and, as   doubled-up soldiers were always getting up
and walking off to other parts of   ground, Alice soon came to  
conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed.

  players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling
all   while, and fighting for   hedgehogs; and in a very short
time   Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and
shouting 'Off with his head!' or 'Off with her head!' about once in a
minute.

Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any
dispute with   Queen, but she knew that it might happen any minute,
'and then,' thought she, 'what would become of me? They're dreadfully
fond of beheading people here;   great wonder is, that there's any one
left alive!'

She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she
could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance
in   air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it
a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said to herself
'It's   Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to.'

'How are you getting on?' said   Cat, as soon as there was mouth
enough for it to speak with.

Alice waited till   eyes appeared, and then nodded. 'It's no use
speaking to it,' she thought, 'till its ears have come, or at least one
of them.' In another minute   whole head appeared, and then Alice put
down her flamingo, and began an account of   game, feeling very glad
she had someone to listen to her.   Cat seemed to think that there was
enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.

'I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather a
complaining tone, 'and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't hear
oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in particular;
at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and you've no idea how
confusing it is all   things being alive; for instance, there's  
arch I've got to go through next walking about at   other end of  
ground--and I should have croqueted   Queen's hedgehog just now, only
it ran away when it saw mine coming!'

'How do you like   Queen?' said   Cat in a low voice.

'Not at all,' said Alice: 'she's so extremely--' Just then she noticed
that   Queen was close behind her, listening: so she went on,
'--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while finishing   game.'

  Queen smiled and passed on.

'Who ARE you talking to?' said   King, going up to Alice, and looking
at   Cat's head with great curiosity.

'It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice: 'allow me to
introduce it.'

'I don't like   look of it at all,' said   King: 'however, it may
kiss my hand if it likes.'

'I'd rather not,'   Cat remarked.

'Don't be impertinent,' said   King, 'and don't look at me like that!'
He got behind Alice as he spoke.

'A cat may look at a king,' said Alice. 'I've read that in some book,
but I don't remember where.'

'Well, it must be removed,' said   King very decidedly, and he called
  Queen, who was passing at   moment, 'My dear! I wish you would
have this cat removed!'

  Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small.
'Off with his head!' she said, without even looking round.

'I'll fetch   executioner myself,' said   King eagerly, and he
hurried off.

Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how   game was going
on, as she heard   Queen's voice in   distance, screaming with
passion. She had already heard her sentence three of   players to be
executed for having missed their turns, and she did not like   look
of things at all, as   game was in such confusion that she never knew
whether it was her turn or not. So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed
to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with  
other:   only difficulty was, that her flamingo was gone across to  
other side of   garden, where Alice could see it trying in a helpless
sort of way to fly up into a tree.

By   time she had caught   flamingo and brought it back,   fight
was over, and both   hedgehogs were out of sight: 'but it doesn't
matter much,' thought Alice, 'as all   arches are gone from this side
of   ground.' So she tucked it away under her arm, that it might not
escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her
friend.

When she got back to   Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to find quite a
large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between
  executioner,   King, and   Queen, who were all talking at once,
while all   rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable.

  moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle
  question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they
all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly
what they said.

  executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a head unless
there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a
thing before, and he wasn't going to begin at HIS time of life.

  King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about it in less
than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round. (It was this last
remark that had made   whole party look so grave and anxious.)

Alice could think of nothing else to say but 'It belongs to   Duchess:
you'd better ask HER about it.'

'She's in prison,'   Queen said to   executioner: 'fetch her here.'
And   executioner went off like an arrow.

   Cat's head began fading away   moment he was gone, and,
by   time he had come back with   Duchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so   King and   executioner ran wildly up and down
looking for it, while   rest of   party went back to   game.




CHAPTER IX.   Mock Turtle's Story

'You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!'
said   Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice's, and
they walked off together.

Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought
to herself that perhaps it was only   pepper that had made her so
savage when they met in   kitchen.

'When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very hopeful tone
though), 'I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT ALL. Soup does very
well without--Maybe it's always pepper that makes people hot-tempered,'
she went on, very much pleased at having found out a new kind of
rule, 'and vinegar that makes them sour--and camomile that makes
them bitter--and--and barley-sugar and such things that make children
sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew that: then they wouldn't be so
stingy about it, you know--'

She had quite forgotten   Duchess by this time, and was a little
startled when she heard her voice close to her ear. 'You're thinking
about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can't
tell you just now what   moral of that is, but I shall remember it in
a bit.'

'Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

'Tut, tut, child!' said   Duchess. 'Everything's got a moral, if only
you can find it.' And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice's side as
she spoke.

Alice did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because  
Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly  
right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder, and it was an
uncomfortably sharp chin. However, she did not like to be rude, so she
bore it as well as she could.

'  game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of keeping up
  conversation a little.

''Tis so,' said   Duchess: 'and   moral of that is--"Oh, 'tis love,
'tis love, that makes   world go round!"'

'Somebody said,' Alice whispered, 'that it's done by everybody minding
their own business!'

'Ah, well! It means much   same thing,' said   Duchess, digging her
sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added, 'and   moral
of THAT is--"Take care of   sense, and   sounds will take care of
themselves."'

'How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to herself.

'I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your waist,'
  Duchess said after a pause: '  reason is, that I'm doubtful about
  temper of your flamingo. Shall I try   experiment?'

'HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to
have   experiment tried.

'Very true,' said   Duchess: 'flamingoes and mustard both bite. And
  moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock together."'

'Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

'Right, as usual,' said   Duchess: 'what a clear way you have of
putting things!'

'It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

'Of course it is,' said   Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to
everything that Alice said; 'there's a large mustard-mine near here. And
  moral of that is--"  more there is of mine,   less there is of
yours."'

'Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this last remark,
'it's a vegetable. It doesn't look like one, but it is.'

'I quite agree with you,' said   Duchess; 'and   moral of that
is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put more
simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might
appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise
than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise."'

'I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very politely, 'if
I had it written down: but I can't quite follow it as you say it.'

'That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,'   Duchess replied, in
a pleased tone.

'Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,' said
Alice.

'Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said   Duchess. 'I make you a present
of everything I've said as yet.'

'A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice. 'I'm glad they don't give
birthday presents like that!' But she did not venture to say it out
loud.

'Thinking again?'   Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp
little chin.

'I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was beginning to
feel a little worried.

'Just about as much right,' said   Duchess, 'as pigs have to fly; and
  m--'

But here, to Alice's great surprise,   Duchess's voice died away, even
in   middle of her favourite word 'moral,' and   arm that was linked
into hers began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there stood   Queen
in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm.

'A fine day, your Majesty!'   Duchess began in a low, weak voice.

'Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted   Queen, stamping on  
ground as she spoke; 'either you or your head must be off, and that in
about half no time! Take your choice!'

  Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

'Let's go on with   game,'   Queen said to Alice; and Alice was
too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to  
croquet-ground.

  other guests had taken advantage of   Queen's absence, and were
resting in   shade: however,   moment they saw her, they hurried
back to   game,   Queen merely remarking that a moment's delay would
cost them their lives.

All   time they were playing   Queen never left off quarrelling with
  other players, and shouting 'Off with his head!' or 'Off with her
head!' Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by   soldiers,
who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so that by
  end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and all  
players, except   King,   Queen, and Alice, were in custody and
under sentence of execution.

Then   Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice, 'Have
you seen   Mock Turtle yet?'

'No,' said Alice. 'I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

'It's   thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said   Queen.

'I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

'Come on, then,' said   Queen, 'and he shall tell you his history,'

As they walked off together, Alice heard   King say in a low voice,
to   company generally, 'You are all pardoned.' 'Come, THAT'S a good
thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite unhappy at  
number of executions   Queen had ordered.

They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in   sun.
(IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at   picture.) 'Up, lazy
thing!' said   Queen, 'and take this young lady to see   Mock
Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some
executions I have ordered'; and she walked off, leaving Alice alone with
  Gryphon. Alice did not quite like   look of   creature, but on
  whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go
after that savage Queen: so she waited.

  Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched   Queen till
she was out of sight: then it chuckled. 'What fun!' said   Gryphon,
half to itself, half to Alice.

'What IS   fun?' said Alice.

'Why, SHE,' said   Gryphon. 'It's all her fancy, that: they never
executes nobody, you know. Come on!'

'Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went slowly
after it: 'I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!'

They had not gone far before they saw   Mock Turtle in   distance,
sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came
nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. She
pitied him deeply. 'What is his sorrow?' she asked   Gryphon, and  
Gryphon answered, very nearly in   same words as before, 'It's all his
fancy, that: he hasn't got no sorrow, you know. Come on!'

So they went up to   Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes
full of tears, but said nothing.

'This here young lady,' said   Gryphon, 'she wants for to know your
history, she do.'

'I'll tell it her,' said   Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow tone: 'sit
down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've finished.'

So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to
herself, 'I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he doesn't begin.' But
she waited patiently.

'Once,' said   Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, 'I was a real
Turtle.'

These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an
occasional exclamation of 'Hjckrrh!' from   Gryphon, and   constant
heavy sobbing of   Mock Turtle. Alice was very nearly getting up and
saying, 'Thank you, sir, for your interesting story,' but she could
not help thinking there MUST be more to come, so she sat still and said
nothing.

'When we were little,'   Mock Turtle went on at last, more calmly,
though still sobbing a little now and then, 'we went to school in  
sea.   master was an old Turtle--we used to call him Tortoise--'

'Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

'We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said   Mock Turtle
angrily: 'really you are very dull!'

'You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question,'
added   Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and looked at poor
Alice, who felt ready to sink into   earth. At last   Gryphon said
to   Mock Turtle, 'Drive on, old fellow! Don't be all day about it!'
and he went on in these words:

'Yes, we went to school in   sea, though you mayn't believe it--'

'I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

'You did,' said   Mock Turtle.

'Hold your tongue!' added   Gryphon, before Alice could speak again.
  Mock Turtle went on.

'We had   best of educations--in fact, we went to school every day--'

'I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; 'you needn't be so proud
as all that.'

'With extras?' asked   Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

'Yes,' said Alice, 'we learned French and music.'

'And washing?' said   Mock Turtle.

'Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

'Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said   Mock Turtle in
a tone of great relief. 'Now at OURS they had at   end of   bill,
"French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

'You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; 'living at   bottom of
  sea.'

'I couldn't afford to learn it.' said   Mock Turtle with a sigh. 'I
only took   regular course.'

'What was that?' inquired Alice.

'Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,'   Mock Turtle
replied; 'and then   different branches of Arithmetic--Ambition,
Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

'I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say. 'What is it?'

  Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise. 'What! Never heard of
uglifying!' it exclaimed. 'You know what to beautify is, I suppose?'

'Yes,' said Alice doubtfully: 'it means--to--make--anything--prettier.'

'Well, then,'   Gryphon went on, 'if you don't know what to uglify is,
you ARE a simpleton.'

Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so she
turned to   Mock Turtle, and said 'What else had you to learn?'

'Well, there was Mystery,'   Mock Turtle replied, counting off
  subjects on his flappers, '--Mystery, ancient and modern, with
Seaography: then Drawling--  Drawling-master was an old conger-eel,
that used to come once a week: HE taught us Drawling, Stretching, and
Fainting in Coils.'

'What was THAT like?' said Alice.

'Well, I can't show it you myself,'   Mock Turtle said: 'I'm too
stiff. And   Gryphon never learnt it.'

'Hadn't time,' said   Gryphon: 'I went to   Classics master, though.
He was an old crab, HE was.'

'I never went to him,'   Mock Turtle said with a sigh: 'he taught
Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

'So he did, so he did,' said   Gryphon, sighing in his turn; and both
creatures hid their faces in their paws.

'And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a hurry to
change   subject.

'Ten hours   first day,' said   Mock Turtle: 'nine   next, and so
on.'

'What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

'That's   reason they're called lessons,'   Gryphon remarked:
'because they lessen from day to day.'

This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little
before she made her next remark. 'Then   eleventh day must have been a
holiday?'

'Of course it was,' said   Mock Turtle.

'And how did you manage on   twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

'That's enough about lessons,'   Gryphon interrupted in a very decided
tone: 'tell her something about   games now.'




CHAPTER X.   Lobster Quadrille

  Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew   back of one flapper across
his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or
two sobs choked his voice. 'Same as if he had a bone in his throat,'
said   Gryphon: and it set to work shaking him and punching him in
  back. At last   Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and, with tears
running down his cheeks, he went on again:--

'You may not have lived much under   sea--' ('I haven't,' said
Alice)--'and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say 'I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily, and
said 'No, never') '--so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a
Lobster Quadrille is!'

'No, indeed,' said Alice. 'What sort of a dance is it?'

'Why,' said   Gryphon, 'you first form into a line along  
sea-shore--'

'Two lines!' cried   Mock Turtle. 'Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on;
then, when you've cleared all   jelly-fish out of   way--'

'THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted   Gryphon.

'--you advance twice--'

'Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried   Gryphon.

'Of course,'   Mock Turtle said: 'advance twice, set to partners--'

'--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued   Gryphon.

'Then, you know,'   Mock Turtle went on, 'you throw  --'

'  lobsters!' shouted   Gryphon, with a bound into   air.

'--as far out to sea as you can--'

'Swim after them!' screamed   Gryphon.

'Turn a somersault in   sea!' cried   Mock Turtle, capering wildly
about.

'Change lobsters again!' yelled   Gryphon at   top of its voice.

'Back to land again, and that's all   first figure,' said   Mock
Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and   two creatures, who had been
jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly
and quietly, and looked at Alice.

'It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

'Would you like to see a little of it?' said   Mock Turtle.

'Very much indeed,' said Alice.

'Come, let's try   first figure!' said   Mock Turtle to   Gryphon.
'We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?'

'Oh, YOU sing,' said   Gryphon. 'I've forgotten   words.'

So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and
then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their
forepaws to mark   time, while   Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly
and sadly:--

 '"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
 "There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my tail.

 See how eagerly   lobsters and   turtles all advance!
 They are waiting on   shingle--will you come and join   dance?

 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join   dance?
 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join   dance?

 "You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
 When they take us up and throw us, with   lobsters, out to sea!"
 But   snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look askance--
 Said he thanked   whiting kindly, but he would not join   dance.

 Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join   dance.
 Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join   dance.

 '"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
 "There is another shore, you know, upon   other side.
   further off from England   nearer is to France--
 Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join   dance.

 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join   dance?
 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join   dance?"'

'Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said Alice, feeling
very glad that it was over at last: 'and I do so like that curious song
about   whiting!'

'Oh, as to   whiting,' said   Mock Turtle, 'they--you've seen them,
of course?'

'Yes,' said Alice, 'I've often seen them at dinn--' she checked herself
hastily.

'I don't know where Dinn may be,' said   Mock Turtle, 'but if you've
seen them so often, of course you know what they're like.'

'I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully. 'They have their tails in
their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

'You're wrong about   crumbs,' said   Mock Turtle: 'crumbs would all
wash off in   sea. But they HAVE their tails in their mouths; and  
reason is--' here   Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes.--'Tell her
about   reason and all that,' he said to   Gryphon.

'  reason is,' said   Gryphon, 'that they WOULD go with   lobsters
to   dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long
way. So they got their tails fast in their mouths. So they couldn't get
them out again. That's all.'

'Thank you,' said Alice, 'it's very interesting. I never knew so much
about a whiting before.'

'I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said   Gryphon. 'Do you
know why it's called a whiting?'

'I never thought about it,' said Alice. 'Why?'

'IT DOES   BOOTS AND SHOES.'   Gryphon replied very solemnly.

Alice was thoroughly puzzled. 'Does   boots and shoes!' she repeated
in a wondering tone.

'Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said   Gryphon. 'I mean, what
makes them so shiny?'

Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she gave her
answer. 'They're done with blacking, I believe.'

'Boots and shoes under   sea,'   Gryphon went on in a deep voice,
'are done with a whiting. Now you know.'

'And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.

'Soles and eels, of course,'   Gryphon replied rather impatiently:
'any shrimp could have told you that.'

'If I'd been   whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were still running
on   song, 'I'd have said to   porpoise, "Keep back, please: we
don't want YOU with us!"'

'They were obliged to have him with them,'   Mock Turtle said: 'no
wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

'Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

'Of course not,' said   Mock Turtle: 'why, if a fish came to ME, and
told me he was going a journey, I should say "With what porpoise?"'

'Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

'I mean what I say,'   Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone. And
  Gryphon added 'Come, let's hear some of YOUR adventures.'

'I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,' said
Alice a little timidly: 'but it's no use going back to yesterday,
because I was a different person then.'

'Explain all that,' said   Mock Turtle.

'No, no!   adventures first,' said   Gryphon in an impatient tone:
'explanations take such a dreadful time.'

So Alice began telling them her adventures from   time when she first
saw   White Rabbit. She was a little nervous about it just at first,
  two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened
their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she gained courage as she went
on. Her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to   part about
her repeating 'YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,' to   Caterpillar, and  
words all coming different, and then   Mock Turtle drew a long breath,
and said 'That's very curious.'

'It's all about as curious as it can be,' said   Gryphon.

'It all came different!'   Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. 'I
should like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to
begin.' He looked at   Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of
authority over Alice.

'Stand up and repeat "'TIS   VOICE OF   SLUGGARD,"' said  
Gryphon.

'How   creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons!'
thought Alice; 'I might as well be at school at once.' However, she
got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of   Lobster
Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was saying, and   words came
very queer indeed:--

  ''Tis   voice of   Lobster; I heard him declare,
  "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
  As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
  Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

       [later editions continued as follows
  When   sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
  And will talk in contemptuous tones of   Shark,
  But, when   tide rises and sharks are around,
  His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

'That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,' said  
Gryphon.

'Well, I never heard it before,' said   Mock Turtle; 'but it sounds
uncommon nonsense.'

Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands,
wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way again.

'I should like to have it explained,' said   Mock Turtle.

'She can't explain it,' said   Gryphon hastily. 'Go on with   next
verse.'

'But about his toes?'   Mock Turtle persisted. 'How COULD he turn them
out with his nose, you know?'

'It's   first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was dreadfully
puzzled by   whole thing, and longed to change   subject.

'Go on with   next verse,'   Gryphon repeated impatiently: 'it
begins "I passed by his garden."'

Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come
wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

  'I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
  How   Owl and   Panther were sharing a pie--'

    [later editions continued as follows
    Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
  While   Owl had   dish as its share of   treat.
  When   pie was all finished,   Owl, as a boon,
  Was kindly permitted to pocket   spoon:
  While   Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
  And concluded   banquet--]

'What IS   use of repeating all that stuff,'   Mock Turtle
interrupted, 'if you don't explain it as you go on? It's by far   most
confusing thing I ever heard!'

'Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said   Gryphon: and Alice was
only too glad to do so.

'Shall we try another figure of   Lobster Quadrille?'   Gryphon went
on. 'Or would you like   Mock Turtle to sing you a song?'

'Oh, a song, please, if   Mock Turtle would be so kind,' Alice
replied, so eagerly that   Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone,
'Hm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her "Turtle Soup," will you, old
fellow?'

  Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked
with sobs, to sing this:--

   'Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
   Waiting in a hot tureen!
   Who for such dainties would not stoop?
   Soup of   evening, beautiful Soup!
   Soup of   evening, beautiful Soup!
     Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
     Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
   Soo--oop of   e--e--evening,
     Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

   'Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
   Game, or any other dish?
   Who would not give all else for two
   Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
   Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
     Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
     Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
   Soo--oop of   e--e--evening,
     Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

'Chorus again!' cried   Gryphon, and   Mock Turtle had just begun
to repeat it, when a cry of '  trial's beginning!' was heard in  
distance.

'Come on!' cried   Gryphon, and, taking Alice by   hand, it hurried
off, without waiting for   end of   song.

'What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but   Gryphon only
answered 'Come on!' and ran   faster, while more and more faintly
came, carried on   breeze that followed them,   melancholy words:--

   'Soo--oop of   e--e--evening,
     Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'




CHAPTER XI. Who Stole   Tarts?

  King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they
arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts of little
birds and beasts, as well as   whole pack of cards:   Knave was
standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard
him; and near   King was   White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand,
and a scroll of parchment in   other. In   very middle of   court
was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good,
that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them--'I wish they'd get  
trial done,' she thought, 'and hand round   refreshments!' But there
seemed to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away   time.

Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had read
about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that she knew
  name of nearly everything there. 'That's   judge,' she said to
herself, 'because of his great wig.'

  judge, by   way, was   King; and as he wore his crown over  
wig, (look at   frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,) he did
not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming.

'And that's   jury-box,' thought Alice, 'and those twelve creatures,'
(she was obliged to say 'creatures,' you see, because some of them were
animals, and some were birds,) 'I suppose they are   jurors.' She said
this last word two or three times over to herself, being rather proud of
it: for she thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of her
age knew   meaning of it at all. However, 'jury-men' would have done
just as well.

  twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates. 'What are they
doing?' Alice whispered to   Gryphon. 'They can't have anything to put
down yet, before   trial's begun.'

'They're putting down their names,'   Gryphon whispered in reply, 'for
fear they should forget them before   end of   trial.'

'Stupid things!' Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped
hastily, for   White Rabbit cried out, 'Silence in   court!' and  
King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to make out who
was talking.

Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their shoulders,
that all   jurors were writing down 'stupid things!' on their slates,
and she could even make out that one of them didn't know how to spell
'stupid,' and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him. 'A nice
muddle their slates'll be in before   trial's over!' thought Alice.

One of   jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, Alice
could not stand, and she went round   court and got behind him, and
very soon found an opportunity of taking it away. She did it so quickly
that   poor little juror (it was Bill,   Lizard) could not make out
at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was
obliged to write with one finger for   rest of   day; and this was
of very little use, as it left no mark on   slate.

'Herald, read   accusation!' said   King.

On this   White Rabbit blew three blasts on   trumpet, and then
unrolled   parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

   '  Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
      All on a summer day:
      Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
      And took them quite away!'

'Consider your verdict,'   King said to   jury.

'Not yet, not yet!'   Rabbit hastily interrupted. 'There's a great
deal to come before that!'

'Call   first witness,' said   King; and   White Rabbit blew three
blasts on   trumpet, and called out, 'First witness!'

  first witness was   Hatter. He came in with a teacup in one
hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in   other. 'I beg pardon, your
Majesty,' he began, 'for bringing these in: but I hadn't quite finished
my tea when I was sent for.'

'You ought to have finished,' said   King. 'When did you begin?'

  Hatter looked at   March Hare, who had followed him into  
court, arm-in-arm with   Dormouse. 'Fourteenth of March, I think it
was,' he said.

'Fifteenth,' said   March Hare.

'Sixteenth,' added   Dormouse.

'Write that down,'   King said to   jury, and   jury eagerly
wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and
reduced   answer to shillings and pence.

'Take off your hat,'   King said to   Hatter.

'It isn't mine,' said   Hatter.

'Stolen!'   King exclaimed, turning to   jury, who instantly made a
memorandum of   fact.

'I keep them to sell,'   Hatter added as an explanation; 'I've none of
my own. I'm a hatter.'

Here   Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at   Hatter,
who turned pale and fidgeted.

'Give your evidence,' said   King; 'and don't be nervous, or I'll have
you executed on   spot.'

This did not seem to encourage   witness at all: he kept shifting
from one foot to   other, looking uneasily at   Queen, and in
his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of  
bread-and-butter.

Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled
her a good deal until she made out what it was: she was beginning to
grow larger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave
  court; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as
long as there was room for her.

'I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said   Dormouse, who was sitting
next to her. 'I can hardly breathe.'

'I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly: 'I'm growing.'

'You've no right to grow here,' said   Dormouse.

'Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly: 'you know you're growing
too.'

'Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said   Dormouse: 'not in that
ridiculous fashion.' And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to  
other side of   court.

All this time   Queen had never left off staring at   Hatter, and,
just as   Dormouse crossed   court, she said to one of   officers
of   court, 'Bring me   list of   singers in   last concert!' on
which   wretched Hatter trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

'Give your evidence,'   King repeated angrily, 'or I'll have you
executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

'I'm a poor man, your Majesty,'   Hatter began, in a trembling voice,
'--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week or so--and what with  
bread-and-butter getting so thin--and   twinkling of   tea--'

'  twinkling of   what?' said   King.

'It began with   tea,'   Hatter replied.

'Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said   King sharply. 'Do you
take me for a dunce? Go on!'

'I'm a poor man,'   Hatter went on, 'and most things twinkled after
that--only   March Hare said--'

'I didn't!'   March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

'You did!' said   Hatter.

'I deny it!' said   March Hare.

'He denies it,' said   King: 'leave out that part.'

'Well, at any rate,   Dormouse said--'   Hatter went on, looking
anxiously round to see if he would deny it too: but   Dormouse denied
nothing, being fast asleep.

'After that,' continued   Hatter, 'I cut some more bread-and-butter--'

'But what did   Dormouse say?' one of   jury asked.

'That I can't remember,' said   Hatter.

'You MUST remember,' remarked   King, 'or I'll have you executed.'

  miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and went
down on one knee. 'I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he began.

'You're a very poor speaker,' said   King.

Here one of   guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately suppressed by
  officers of   court. (As that is rather a hard word, I will just
explain to you how it was done. They had a large canvas bag, which tied
up at   mouth with strings: into this they slipped   guinea-pig,
head first, and then sat upon it.)

'I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice. 'I've so often read
in   newspapers, at   end of trials, "There was some attempts
at applause, which was immediately suppressed by   officers of  
court," and I never understood what it meant till now.'

'If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,' continued  
King.

'I can't go no lower,' said   Hatter: 'I'm on   floor, as it is.'

'Then you may SIT down,'   King replied.

Here   other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

'Come, that finished   guinea-pigs!' thought Alice. 'Now we shall get
on better.'

'I'd rather finish my tea,' said   Hatter, with an anxious look at  
Queen, who was reading   list of singers.

'You may go,' said   King, and   Hatter hurriedly left   court,
without even waiting to put his shoes on.

'--and just take his head off outside,'   Queen added to one of  
officers: but   Hatter was out of sight before   officer could get
to   door.

'Call   next witness!' said   King.

  next witness was   Duchess's cook. She carried   pepper-box in
her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before she got into  
court, by   way   people near   door began sneezing all at once.

'Give your evidence,' said   King.

'Shan't,' said   cook.

  King looked anxiously at   White Rabbit, who said in a low voice,
'Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

'Well, if I must, I must,'   King said, with a melancholy air, and,
after folding his arms and frowning at   cook till his eyes were
nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, 'What are tarts made of?'

'Pepper, mostly,' said   cook.

'Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

'Collar that Dormouse,'   Queen shrieked out. 'Behead that Dormouse!
Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his
whiskers!'

For some minutes   whole court was in confusion, getting   Dormouse
turned out, and, by   time they had settled down again,   cook had
disappeared.

'Never mind!' said   King, with an air of great relief. 'Call   next
witness.' And he added in an undertone to   Queen, 'Really, my dear,
YOU must cross-examine   next witness. It quite makes my forehead
ache!'

Alice watched   White Rabbit as he fumbled over   list, feeling very
curious to see what   next witness would be like, '--for they haven't
got much evidence YET,' she said to herself. Imagine her surprise, when
  White Rabbit read out, at   top of his shrill little voice,  
name 'Alice!'




CHAPTER XII. Alice's Evidence


'Here!' cried Alice, quite forgetting in   flurry of   moment how
large she had grown in   last few minutes, and she jumped up in such
a hurry that she tipped over   jury-box with   edge of her skirt,
upsetting all   jurymen on to   heads of   crowd below, and there
they lay sprawling about, reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish
she had accidentally upset   week before.

'Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay, and
began picking them up again as quickly as she could, for   accident of
  goldfish kept running in her head, and she had a vague sort of idea
that they must be collected at once and put back into   jury-box, or
they would die.

'  trial cannot proceed,' said   King in a very grave voice, 'until
all   jurymen are back in their proper places--ALL,' he repeated with
great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said do.

Alice looked at   jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had put
  Lizard in head downwards, and   poor little thing was waving its
tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable to move. She soon got
it out again, and put it right; 'not that it signifies much,' she said
to herself; 'I should think it would be QUITE as much use in   trial
one way up as   other.'

As soon as   jury had a little recovered from   shock of being
upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to
them, they set to work very diligently to write out a history of  
accident, all except   Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to do
anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing up into   roof of  
court.

'What do you know about this business?'   King said to Alice.

'Nothing,' said Alice.

'Nothing WHATEVER?' persisted   King.

'Nothing whatever,' said Alice.

'That's very important,'   King said, turning to   jury. They were
just beginning to write this down on their slates, when   White Rabbit
interrupted: 'UNimportant, your Majesty means, of course,' he said in a
very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke.

'UNimportant, of course, I meant,'   King hastily said, and went on
to himself in an undertone,

'important--unimportant--unimportant--important--' as if he were trying
which word sounded best.

Some of   jury wrote it down 'important,' and some 'unimportant.'
Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates;
'but it doesn't matter a bit,' she thought to herself.

At this moment   King, who had been for some time busily writing in
his note-book, cackled out 'Silence!' and read out from his book, 'Rule
Forty-two. ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE HIGH TO LEAVE   COURT.'

Everybody looked at Alice.

'I'M not a mile high,' said Alice.

'You are,' said   King.

'Nearly two miles high,' added   Queen.

'Well, I shan't go, at any rate,' said Alice: 'besides, that's not a
regular rule: you invented it just now.'

'It's   oldest rule in   book,' said   King.

'Then it ought to be Number One,' said Alice.

  King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily. 'Consider your
verdict,' he said to   jury, in a low, trembling voice.

'There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,' said   White
Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; 'this paper has just been picked
up.'

'What's in it?' said   Queen.

'I haven't opened it yet,' said   White Rabbit, 'but it seems to be a
letter, written by   prisoner to--to somebody.'

'It must have been that,' said   King, 'unless it was written to
nobody, which isn't usual, you know.'

'Who is it directed to?' said one of   jurymen.

'It isn't directed at all,' said   White Rabbit; 'in fact, there's
nothing written on   OUTSIDE.' He unfolded   paper as he spoke, and
added 'It isn't a letter, after all: it's a set of verses.'

'Are they in   prisoner's handwriting?' asked another of   jurymen.

'No, they're not,' said   White Rabbit, 'and that's   queerest thing
about it.' (  jury all looked puzzled.)

'He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' said   King. (  jury
all brightened up again.)

'Please your Majesty,' said   Knave, 'I didn't write it, and they
can't prove I did: there's no name signed at   end.'

'If you didn't sign it,' said   King, 'that only makes   matter
worse. You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd have signed your
name like an honest man.'

There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was   first really
clever thing   King had said that day.

'That PROVES his guilt,' said   Queen.

'It proves nothing of   sort!' said Alice. 'Why, you don't even know
what they're about!'

'Read them,' said   King.

  White Rabbit put on his spectacles. 'Where shall I begin, please
your Majesty?' he asked.

'Begin at   beginning,'   King said gravely, 'and go on till you
come to   end: then stop.'

These were   verses   White Rabbit read:--

   'They told me you had been to her,
    And mentioned me to him:
   She gave me a good character,
    But said I could not swim.

   He sent them word I had not gone
    (We know it to be true):
   If she should push   matter on,
    What would become of you?

   I gave her one, they gave him two,
    You gave us three or more;
   They all returned from him to you,
    Though they were mine before.

   If I or she should chance to be
    Involved in this affair,
   He trusts to you to set them free,
    Exactly as we were.

   My notion was that you had been
    (Before she had this fit)
   An obstacle that came between
    Him, and ourselves, and it.

   Don't let him know she liked them best,
    For this must ever be
   A secret, kept from all   rest,
    Between yourself and me.'

'That's   most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,' said  
King, rubbing his hands; 'so now let   jury--'

'If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had grown so large
in   last few minutes that she wasn't a bit afraid of interrupting
him,) 'I'll give him sixpence. _I_ don't believe there's an atom of
meaning in it.'

  jury all wrote down on their slates, 'SHE doesn't believe there's an
atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to explain   paper.

'If there's no meaning in it,' said   King, 'that saves a world of
trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any. And yet I don't know,'
he went on, spreading out   verses on his knee, and looking at them
with one eye; 'I seem to see some meaning in them, after all. "--SAID
I COULD NOT SWIM--" you can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to  
Knave.

  Knave shook his head sadly. 'Do I look like it?' he said. (Which he
certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

'All right, so far,' said   King, and he went on muttering over
  verses to himself: '"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's   jury, of
course--"I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why, that must be what he
did with   tarts, you know--'

'But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said Alice.

'Why, there they are!' said   King triumphantly, pointing to   tarts
on   table. 'Nothing can be clearer than THAT. Then again--"BEFORE SHE
HAD THIS FIT--" you never had fits, my dear, I think?' he said to  
Queen.

'Never!' said   Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at   Lizard
as she spoke. (  unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his
slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hastily
began again, using   ink, that was trickling down his face, as long as
it lasted.)

'Then   words don't FIT you,' said   King, looking round   court
with a smile. There was a dead silence.

'It's a pun!'   King added in an offended tone, and everybody laughed,
'Let   jury consider their verdict,'   King said, for about  
twentieth time that day.

'No, no!' said   Queen. 'Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

'Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly. '  idea of having  
sentence first!'

'Hold your tongue!' said   Queen, turning purple.

'I won't!' said Alice.

'Off with her head!'   Queen shouted at   top of her voice. Nobody
moved.

'Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full size by this
time.) 'You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

At this   whole pack rose up into   air, and came flying down upon
her: she gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and
tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on   bank, with her
head in   lap of her sister, who was gently brushing away some dead
leaves that had fluttered down from   trees upon her face.

'Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; 'Why, what a long sleep you've
had!'

'Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told her
sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange Adventures
of hers that you have just been reading about; and when she had
finished, her sister kissed her, and said, 'It WAS a curious dream,
dear, certainly: but now run in to your tea; it's getting late.' So
Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she ran, as well she might,
what a wonderful dream it had been.

But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her head on her
hand, watching   setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all her
wonderful Adventures, till she too began dreaming after a fashion, and
this was her dream:--

First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again   tiny
hands were clasped upon her knee, and   bright eager eyes were looking
up into hers--she could hear   very tones of her voice, and see that
queer little toss of her head to keep back   wandering hair that
WOULD always get into her eyes--and still as she listened, or seemed to
listen,   whole place around her became alive with   strange creatures
of her little sister's dream.

  long grass rustled at her feet as   White Rabbit hurried by-- 
frightened Mouse splashed his way through   neighbouring pool--she
could hear   rattle of   teacups as   March Hare and his friends
shared their never-ending meal, and   shrill voice of   Queen
ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution--once more   pig-baby
was sneezing on   Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed
around it--once more   shriek of   Gryphon,   squeaking of  
Lizard's slate-pencil, and   choking of   suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled   air, mixed up with   distant sobs of   miserable Mock
Turtle.

So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and all
would change to dull reality--  grass would be only rustling in  
wind, and   pool rippling to   waving of   reeds--  rattling
teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells, and   Queen's shrill
cries to   voice of   shepherd boy--and   sneeze of   baby,  
shriek of   Gryphon, and all   other queer noises, would change (she
knew) to   confused clamour of   busy farm-yard--while   lowing
of   cattle in   distance would take   place of   Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers
would, in   after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how she would
keep, through all her riper years,   simple and loving heart of her
childhood: and how she would gather about her other little children, and
make THEIR eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even
with   dream of Wonderland of long ago: and how she would feel with
all their simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and   happy summer days.

                END
